# Welcome to Stories

Welcome to Stories. In December 2015 [Kenny Hibino](https://github.com/kenny-hibino “Kenny Hibino”) began creating a Medium clone as a personal side project to learn Ruby on Rails and React. 

Soon Kenny decided to create a [YouTube series](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLoUInciCQ806CUFxld2W29V6rbGNfHzbX “Let’s create a Medium Clone with Rails”) based on the project to help other people learn the technologies. 

People began following the lessons, making contributions and improving the app… slowly it began to blossom into an [elegant and powerful application](http://my-medium-clone.herokuapp.com/ “Stories”).

If your keen to gain some new skills, get started by following the install and configuration below, make a [topic branch](https://github.com/dchelimsky/rspec/wiki/Topic-Branches “Topic Branches Explained”) and submit a pull request… lets learn together.


## System dependencies

* PostgreSQL
* Elasticsearch
* Redis
* Ruby version 2.3.0
* Rails

## Step by Step - Install & Configuration

**1. Instal Homebrew**

Homebrew allows us to install and compile software packages easily from source.

Run the following command in the Terminal. When it asks you to install Xcode CommandLine Tools, say yes
 
```ruby -e “$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)”```

**2. Instal Ruby**

```
brew install rbenv ruby-build
```

Add rbenv to bash so that it loads every time you open a Terminal

```
echo ‘if which rbenv > /dev/null; then eval “$(rbenv init -)”; fi’ >> ~/.bash_profile
source ~/.bash_profile
```

Install Ruby 2.3.0 which is required by the app:

```
rbenv install 2.3.0
rbenv global 2.3.0
ruby -v
```

**3. Instal Rails**

Installing Rails is really simple:

```
gem install rails -v 4.2.4
rbenv rehash
rails -v
```


**4. Install PostgreSQL** 

```
brew install postgresql
```

Make sure to follow those instructions of the build notes.

If your installing PostgreSQL for the first time create a database:

```
initdb /usr/local/var/postgres -E utf8
```

Lunchy is a helpful gem that will allow you to easily start and stop Postgres.

```
gem install lunchy
```

Change the version number of PostgreSQL to the version that you installed:

```
mkdir -p ~/Library/LaunchAgents
cp /usr/local/Cellar/postgresql/0.0.0/homebrew.mxcl.postgresql.plist ~/Library/LaunchAgents/
```

To Stop PostgreSQL run:
```
lunchy stop postgres
```

We want it to start PostgreSQL, so instead run:
```
lunchy start postgres
```


**5. Install Elasticsearch**

Where would we be without search? The app uses ElasticSearch which is a search server - quite simply it’s going to help you find posts and users in the app.

```
brew install elasticsearch
```

Start Elasticsearch:
```
elastic search —config=/usr/local/opt/elasticsearch/config/elasticsearch.yml
```

Lets check it is running by visiting [http://localhost:9200](http://localhost:9200) in your browser. You should get something like this:

```
{
  “status” : 200,
  “name” : “Atalanta”,
  “cluster_name” : “elasticsearch_kenhibino”,
  “version” : {
    “number” : “1.7.3”,
    “build_hash” : “05d4530971ef0ea46d0f4fa6ee64dbc8df659682”,
    “build_timestamp” : “2015-10-15T09:14:17Z”,
    “build_snapshot” : false,
    “lucene_version” : “4.10.4”
  },
  “tagline” : “You Know, for Search”
}
```
 
**6. Install Redis**

Using Homebrew install Redis and then start the server:

```
brew install redis
redis-server
```

**7. Clone the app**

Browse to where you want the app to live and clone app:

```
git clone https://github.com/kenny-hibino/stories.git
```

Change directory into the stories folder
```
cd stories
```


**8. Start the app**

First install all the required gems:
```
bundle install
```

Execute Sidekiq, ElasticSearch and Mailer
```
bundle exec sidekiq -q elastic search -q mailer -c 3
```

Set up and migrate the database:
```
rake db:setup
rake db:migrate
```

Lets run the App:
```
rails server
```

Then browse to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view the app in all its glory. Wait where is that “Hello World!” moment? Time to create the admin account so we can create some posts…

**9. Create an Admin account**

Enter the rails console:

```
rails console
```

Add a new user account replacing your email and password:

```
Admin.create(email: ‘your@email.com’, password: ‘password’, password_confirmation: ‘password’)
```

Close the console:

```
exit
```

Navigate to the Admin dashboard and enter your email and password:

[http://localhost:3000/admins/sign_in](http://localhost:3000/admins/sign_in)

You can now...
- Write new posts 
- Feature tags by clicking on the “feature” button when on a tag pages





## Still to come - Things you may want to cover:

* Elasticsearch configuration

* OAuth configuration

* How to run the test suite

* Services (job queues, cache servers, search engines, etc.)

* Deployment instructions


Please feel free to use a different markup language if you do not plan to run
<tt>rake doc:app</tt>.
